pulse is a rapid, transient change of a signal from a baseline value to a certain value and after which there 
is a rapid drop to the baseline value.

carrier is a train of pulses

pulse modultion- analog and digital.

PULSE AMPLITUDE MODULATION
- Signal is sampled at regular intervals

PAM APPLICATIONS- Ethernet comms., USB Version 2, Graphics Double Data Rate 6 Synchronous Dynamic, photo biology

PULSE WIDTH MODULATION- Here the ampitude remains constant but the length of each pulse is varied in accordance with instananeous value of the analog signal.

PWD applications- Contro servo motors, voltage regulation, used in buck anfd boost convrters, audio amplifiers

Bulk converters is a dc2dc converters where the output voltage is lower than the input voltage and Boost is vice versa while motors control displacement and velocity.

PULSE POSITION MODULATION - fixed amplitude and width whereas the position of each pulse is varied as per instanteneous value of the signal.

PPM APPLCATIONS- air traffic control systems, remote controlled cars and millitary comms.

Pulse code modulation is whereby the anolog signal is converted into digital signal by using a digital code.

How to claculate bitrate.

At the decoder side the low pass filter isused to eliminate noise that have frequencies abbove fm and inside the lowpass filter we have a smoothing capacitor.

Delat modulation is a variant  or extension of PCM. 

Advanatage of delta modulation- it has a lower bitrate and disadvantage is that it inaccurate for larger changes in the original signal ie theres no differnve for a signal dropping rapidly and the one which is droppping not immideately.

HOW A DELTA MODULATOR WORKS
it has three major components which are comparator, delay unit and staircase maker.

THe comparator is device that gives a defined output when one input is higher than the other input and another defined output when the first output is less than the second input.

The staircase maker it uses the zeros and the ones. It has two inputs delta code and x(t-1).

The number of bits in delta modulations detemines how fast the signal is modulated. And it helps to be more accurate.

